our
Thank you, Eric. I I am I keep
forgetting to do that. I apologize. Um
all right. Uh I'm going to call to order
the Town of Andover Board of Selectman
um special meeting or September meeting
uh scheduled for Monday, September 15th
at 7:00. And our first order of business
is the uh pledge of allegiance.
I pledge allegiance to the flag of the
United States of America and to the
republic for which it stands, one nation
under God, indivisible, with liberty and
justice for all.
Um,
after that, our second item of business
is public speak. So, I'm going to go
around uh I'm going to start with Kathy
Plausy.
I can't I don't know which button to
hit. Um, good evening and I have nothing
tonight. Let me ask my husband who just
came by. Would you like to say
something? Hun.
>> Hello.
>> Hey, Mike.
>> Thank you.
>> All right. No problem. Um, we're going
to move on to Diane Grer.
>> Can you hear me?
>> We can.
>> Oh, good. Um, let's see.
I want to well I suppose start with uh I
went on to the calendar section and
found the packet for tonight's meeting
and as always I'm impressed with the all
the stuff that's in there and uh I
applaud Eric for a job well done. I'm
always amazed at all the things that he
covers
>> that was mountain.
>> But one one of the things that um I I
saw there that
I have a question about is the Andover
um resident troopers report that comes
from Troop K. And as we all know um for
quite some time the um residents have
been complaining about you know speeding
and you know running through stop signs
and in the troopers report he says in
the month of August they only had three
traffic stops.
Um for all the complaining that we hear
you know the jungle drums out there um
it seems like we should have more more
stops. Um I also I was delighted to see
the first day that we had the bicycle
cops um two of them and I've never seen
them since and I can't see anybody else
who's ever seen them. So I guess my
question is are they still out there and
enforcing and is there something we can
do to increase the number of um
>> patrols that we have? So that's that's
my question and uh thank you for for
listening to my two cents worth.
>> Okay.
>> Uh Kathy Palazi
uh can you turn off uh can you mute
yourself?
>> Thank you. Uh Christine Rendazo.
>> Hi.
So, I am here as part of the um veteran
memorial field um
project. So, I'm just here for
background questions if anything needs
to head my way. So,
>> all right. Thank you. Well, we'll get
with you at that section.
>> All right. Um, Tescrross,
>> I have no comment at this time, Jeff.
Thank you.
>> Okay, Haley Proto,
>> nothing at this time. Thank you.
>> All right, Luis Goodwin,
>> just listening. Thank you.
>> Uh, Kimberly Persan,
>> all set. Thank you.
>> All right. And I have one Zoom login.
All right.
>> I'm sorry, Jeff. That's me, Elaine
Bookart. I don't know what happened to
my name.
>> Yeah,
>> it says Zoom login.
>> Same thing. Same thing with my name. I
can't figure
>> I know. It's like, what the heck? All
right. Um, I just wanted to to mention
that I'm really excited that we have
Tess Grouse and Haley Proto working
together at the community center, senior
center. The uh commission on aging just
had a meeting today to go ahead and see
how things are going and uh they have so
many activities and programs added for
seniors and commuters community members
that are ongoing. They've got Domino's,
chess checker, setback. They've got a
knitting club. They have Friday movies.
They have foot care, hair care, senior
lunches. Um they also have a PAL program
ongoing for kindergarteners and seniors
that are paired to do things together.
Um there's a new pilot program called
Travel in Time where the seniors and uh
second graders are going to be
researching Andover History maybe going
out to some of the sites where that
history happened and uh creating a book
doing some art projects to create a
story brook. So that's a new pilot
program that's starting up in October.
And of course the senior transportation,
they do their uh shopping trips, their
food pantry, their food share. anytime a
senior needs a ride. They're very
accommodating to doctor's appointments.
Um and uh they're also offering rides
for early voting this uh end of October,
beginning of November. Um so I just
wanted to put in a word that they're
doing a great job. Thanks.
>> All right. Thank you. Did I miss anyone?
Okay. If not, we'll continue. Um, we're
going to move on to item three, uh,
additions, changes to the agenda. Do any
of the members of the board have
anything that they would like to add
or delete?
>> Jeff, it's a special meeting, so you
can't add or delete. You can move
things.
>> Well, you can delete. You just can't
add. Sorry.
>> Okay.
>> I was hoping no one would add, but I
have to. Sorry, it's have it. Apologize.
Um, yes, Eric. So I would like to
uh move items 9 C and D the discussion
of the replacement public works
supervisor and public works maintainer
um to the end of the meeting and then I
would like to have a short executive
session prior to that um with the board
before we uh do that in open we any
decisions are made in open session.
Okay. Um,
anyone else? Anything else? Uh, I'll
make a motion that we move 9D and 9E,
uh,
items related to,
uh, the public works
maintainer. I'm sorry, I'm going to
rephrase that. 9 C and 9D.
uh items related to the public works
supervisor and uh public works
maintainer two positions to the end of
the meeting. We will move them down to
uh
item
13X.
Do I get a second on that one from one
of the members? Jeff
>> Scott Person seconded.
All right.
Um,
uh, Ann Ker, how do you vote?
>> In favor? Yes. Verbally so I can get it
on the record.
>> Yes.
>> Okay. Carol Lee.
>> Scott Person.
Scott Person.
>> Yes.
>> Yes. There you go. Jeff Maguire. Yes.
Okay. So, four nothing.
All right. Um, let's move on to uh
item four, board and commission
presentations. Eric, do we have
anything?
>> Uh, none that I know of.
>> Okay. Item five, appointments. Do we
have any?
>> Nope.
>> Okay. Uh, item six, resignations. Uh,
6A, treasurer, effective end of contract
November 1st.
Um,
>> so let me elaborate on that. I think
there is a chance that
uh Cheryl would stay in some capacity.
Um, but I think we're going to have to
work that out with Cheryl what that
looks like. Um, and then we as a board
should, not we as a board, you as a
board should discuss that with me and
how you want to proceed with that. Um, I
have some ideas about some routes we
could take. Um, but there's no, you
know, there's no great solution to this.
Let's put it that way.
>> Well, I didn't see a resignation letter
in our packet. So,
>> no, she didn't send it to me till today.
So, um I can I will forward it to the
board, but I didn't want to forward it
to you right before the meeting because
you tend to yell at me for that.
>> Okay. So, um
um even if she verbally or people
verbally tell you they're resigning,
please don't put it into our meeting
into the agenda until you get the actual
physical resignation letter so that we
know what's up. I mean, it's just more
of a protocol than anything else. It
will be better. And um I would ask you
to um
attempt to work out I mean from my end
attempt to work out something with
Cheryl that will uh allow her to stay
u
see what you can do on that Eric.
>> Sure.
>> Uh item seven, town administrators
report.
>> Okay. So you have uh my report in there
but what I wanted to and and I'll answer
any questions. uh about that. But what I
wanted to do since I don't know about
you guys, but I've gotten a bunch of
people
uh
asking questions about Bunker Hill and
how that is going uh right now. So, what
I wanted to do is spend some time and
kind of go over that and bring you up to
speed on that. Um, I am going to send
you as a board a letter with more
details of it because I I suspect if
you're getting the questions I am, you
know, people are raising concerns and
you got to be able to know what what uh
what to tell them. So,
um, here's the summary as it is stands
right now. At this point, it looks like
construction is mostly back on track and
the constructor the contractor will be
able to finish this construction season.
Um, and there won't be a significant
delay. Um, I've also received more
questions about emergency management
support. Just so everybody knows,
Coventry EMS is the primary responder to
Bunker Hill while the bridge is out. Um
and the Andover uh ambulance and the
Andover Fire Department is the secondary
responder just because the response time
right now from Cottage Tree is much
shorter than from Andover.
um that is going to flip at some point
and Andover is going to end up covering
some of the Coventry residents on that
road because as soon as Bunker Hill
bridge at the Hop River is finished, um
Coventry is going to close the road at
the other end because they have a bridge
on their end that needs to be replaced.
Also,
um the town is working really hard to
make sure we have all the proper
controls in place and that the bridge is
built correctly and that we have a
quality product. And from everything I
can see, it looks like we're going to
get a well-built bridge um that's going
to last us a long time. Um and fourth,
we have a set of contingency plans in
place to plow the roads if the road
closure does extend into
uh into the plowing season. Um, I have
reached out to the head of DPW in
Coventry,
um, with a proposal about how we can
swap roads because right now it would be
a really hard thing for public works to
drive all the way up and and around to
plow the last mile of Bunker Hill Road.
So, we're working on that. Um, and uh,
you know, so, so that's kind of the
cliffotes. Um, if you have specific
questions on that or you want more
details, I'm happy to provide them. Um,
right now we're about 2thirds of the way
through the expected project timeline
for the bridge replacement. The official
start date was April 1st and the
expected completion date is November
30th. Um, so again, at this point, it
looks like the contractor should meet
that date or if not be pretty close. Um,
as we've talked about before, there were
two significant issues with the project.
The first was uh the the main bridge
span is composed of nine pre-stressed
concrete beams. Um, two of the nine were
manufactured with significant defects.
The manufacturer wanted to fix them. Uh,
the town insisted that they replaced
them. um that's gone back and forth a
couple times. They've basically told us
it's going to take them forever to
refabricate them and then threaten to
make us pay. Um and we kind of stood
firm with the Department of
Transportation
uh with CONDOT Bridge engineering and
told them to uh pound sand. Um and as a
result, they've already poured it. Um
those bridge sections will be delivered
in two days. Uh the crane is being
erected on site right now. Two of the
the uh nine beams are already lined up
on the road and four more are sitting in
a staging area um you know 15 or 20
miles from here. and they've got to
basically put all those in place, take
their trailers back to get the last
three. So, with a little luck, by
Thursday, the beams will be in place and
ground. So, that's that's a a
you know, that's a good thing is terms
of schedule. Before Before you move on
from that, um
the two beams that were poured, right,
they were poured about two weeks ago,
>> correct?
>> They've cured.
>> They've cured enough to be installed and
they passed all their their initial
strength tests
>> and their material specification tests.
So the engineering firm did the testing
that they did on the original beams and
or the other seven beams and they've
determined that these two beams
meet all the testing protocol and all
the testing specifications. Okay.
>> Correct.
>> All right.
>> And when do you think they'll all be uh
in position? So are they going to try to
do this all in one day? They have two
beams positioned that I saw pictures
from Scott was nice enough to send them.
>> No, they they can't do it. They could
physic they probably physically could
set all nine beams in one day with the
crane. But the problem is they actually
don't have enough trailers because every
beam only one beam will fit on a trailer
because the heaviest beam that we have I
think is 55 55 tons. So, um, the two end
beams, which are the heaviest, um, in
other words, all of them come
separately, one per tractor trailer, and
they only have six, uh, trailers to put
these things on. So, basically, there's
six of them ready to go now. As soon as
they start uh
uh putting in place the beams, they're
going to be driving down back the
trailers, loading them up. But it's also
complicated because these things take
oversized permits and you can't just
drive them anywhere you want at any time
of day. So there's time of day
restrictions when they can get uh
delivered. So the bottom line is they
should all be installed by Thursday per
their existing schedule. Um so six of
them tomorrow. Um and the last three
installed on Thursday, Wednesday being
the transportation day for the next set
of beams.
>> Okay.
>> So that was the first big issue. The
second big issue was with the micro
piles. And so you know, basically a
micro pile is a vertical hole about 6 in
in diameter that is drilled down to
bedrock. Um, and then a heavy structural
steel casing is inserted down the hole
uh to bedrock and then a giant piece of
rebar that's about 3 in in diameter is
dropped into the hole and then it's
filled with structural grout. Um, and so
the and the hole extends about 10 ft
into bedrock. So basically it's like a
vertical support that goes under uh
uh
you know what do you call under the the
end support for the bridge. And the
reason that's done is to make sure
there's no possibility of in a huge
flood water scouring the earth
underneath the bridge abutments and
washing out a bridge abutman because now
you would have to wash all the way down
to bedrock and then shear, you know, 12
of these uh things on each side of the
bridge.
So when they poured the
uh grout down there, they took a total
of six samples. They took three right in
the beginning and they took three more a
couple hours later. Um so our inspector
took three of the samples. He took the
samples of the very first material that
was mixed up and then the contractor
took samples later. Um they both go to
different testing labs. One set went to
the condot lab. One sent one set set
went to uh materials testing um which is
pretty local to us. That's a really
reputable uh operation. They had very
different results. The ones that went to
conduct failed the specification.
The ones that were taken
a while later on that same day with that
same crew passed and then all the sets
for the other abupment passed as did the
two test uh ones that were done when
they put the first micro pile in. Um, so
we I had a bunch of discussions with the
engineers from DOT as well as the bridge
designer of record who's a senior
engineer from CDR Maguire. Um, and the
engineer from CDR Maguire basically
said, "These things are so overdesigned,
they will more than likely pass the
structural
uh the actual structural loading
requirements even with the if you assume
the lowest strength route result that we
got. So, but he's not the guy that has
to certify that. the engineer that works
for the micro pile is the one that has
to certify that. So we requested that
they provide us with uh you know
essentially certifications a letter. Um
and so he sent us a letter with his his
structural engineering stamp on it
basically saying that it meets the
existing strength. um
you know it it meets the design spec
even though it is less even if you
assume that all the grout was at the
lowest uh compressive strength that was
there. And the reason is because the
majority of the strength requirement in
that system is the strength of the steel
casing not the grout itself. Um, so we
still asked him for his math, um, which
they haven't supplied yet, but I'm
presuming that will. So I think that
will go away. That issue will go away,
uh, pretty quickly. Um,
>> and I think
>> National Shoring,
>> what
>> who is National Shoring?
National Shoring is the company that
drilled the micro piles and grouted and
is responsible for the micro piles. Um,
but they in turn use an engineering
company because basically what it is is
you never know exactly what the
characteristic of a micro pile is until
you have a fully until you have a full
micro pile. So the very first thing they
do when they show up on site is they
drill one micro pile, put the casing in,
put the rebar in, grout it, wait seven
to 10 days, and then they bring in this
big rig and they try to pull it out um
and see whether they can pull it out and
it has the proper withdrawal strength.
And then they try to bend it um and see
whether it's bendable and what the
torsional rigidity of it is. And then
based on the numbers from that testing,
they produce the final design for the
rest of the micro pile. So even though
the bridge is already designed, the
actual microp pile design is the
responsibility of the company that does
the micro piles. So, we did get a letter
from their engineering firm saying that
um you know even if you assume that the
testing results are correct and the uh
compressive strength of the grout was
low, it's still well within structural
the structural capacity of the bridge.
>> Question is their engineering firm that
was hired by National Shoring. Correct.
Correct.
>> And it sounds like from their letter
that they did go even based on the
Connecticut DO
rating, the lower rating, even though
they didn't agree with it.
>> Correct. It sounded like they said that
the pilings,
the micro piles were they gave kind of
their stamp of approval with a
disclaimer in there too saying that the
acceptance was based on documents and
representations provided by National
Shoring.
>> Correct.
>> But they're not warrantying anything.
No, but no, neither is I mean they
wouldn't be warranting anything either
way. I mean all they're doing is saying
that based on the results
of the compressive strength of the
grout, the overall micro pile design
still meets the specifications that the
bridge designer had outlined for the
micro pile uh you know design.
And the reality is
>> just just one last thing for me. How
different were the two test results?
>> Uh night and day. Um the first test
results were about 1,500 PSI and the
second results were between 7 and 10,000
PSI.
>> And
are they core samples? How did they take
the samples? And did we take did you
take the samples from the 1500 PSI
company and go get them retested or no?
>> No, you can't. Um, and the reason is is
that you basically when you're mixing up
the grout, they have these little
cylinders and they make they take three
cylinders. They they fill three
cylinders with grout, seal them, sign
them, and date them, and then
essentially put them aside for 28 days
um before they can test them because the
the test is supposed to be uh the 28 day
strength rating of it. Um, so that
that's kind of the
interesting thing in some ways is why
was the test that low? I mean, whitest
stone basically said that cond lab
screwed it up and didn't do it right.
Um, you know, that it's almost
impossible for it to be that low anyway.
Well, just just so
>> was
there a testing about this the square
inches? How many square inches there
was? They they did it a six by six inch
pipe and a a 2 inch square or something.
Eric, what what was that all about?
>> Yeah. So, Whitest Stone basically said
they thought the reason the the test
came out low is because they were using
a testing rig optimized for a much
larger sample size than what they got
and that was the problem. But that
doesn't really make sense because they
tested all the grout cubes from the
other side in the DOT lab and they're
like their uh results and whitest stones
results were very similar and the
initial
when they did the test grout when they
did the the test micro pile the the
samples matched between uh materials
testing laboratory who tested them for
national shoring and the the ones our
inspector pulled. So, I mean, I I don't
know. Everybody was surprised that they
came out that low. Um the problem is
there were only three and it's a
destructive test. So, having done the
test, there's really not any way to the
only way you could recover from that now
is to have taken a lot more cubes in the
first place.
>> Okay. So just for me,
>> Sure.
>> was you said that they took samples at
two different times within the pouring,
>> correct?
>> The filling of the grout. Did both
engineering firms or both testing
laboratories test samples from both
pores
or did did one company do the first set
and one company do the second set?
>> No. So the way it's supposed to work is
you're required to pull you're required
to test at least one triplicate set per
day of grouting operations.
And each side of the bridge, you know,
all the microp piles got grouted in one
day. And so basically, you have a
machine that's continually mixing the
grout with water and producing a
material that then is put in each
successive micro piles. Now, for
whatever reason, the very first micro
pile um took roughly six times as many
uh bags of grout as the other micro
piles, probably because the the
uh rock where that where it was in the
rock was fractured. That's the guess.
And that's that's apparently not
uncommon,
you know, with that. So more than likely
the problem if if there truly was a
problem is in a single micro pile. But I
don't think there's any way looking back
on it that you can figure that out. Um
and the the real secondary problem is
because you have to wait 28 days per the
DOT testing standards.
um 28 days later the bridge abutment was
already poured over and all the microp
priiles were encapsulated.
So it's almost not something that could
be recoverable without pouring entirely
new beams for the bridge and moving that
abupment back and starting over. Um, but
>> so they're saying they're saying at 1500
PSI the bridge of
>> plenty is plenty. Okay,
>> Jeff, there's there's 10 on each side.
They're down, you know, 30 feet through
the gravel and then 10 feet into the
snow. And I've been down there every
day.
>> And then the microp piles are put in,
the grout's all put in there. And then
they put the abutman on top of that
already. You know, it was done a month
ago. That's It's never going to move
ever.
>> Okay. All right. Um, but I still don't
understand the I'm I'm stuck on the
testing protocol.
>> The 1600 PSI is plenty.
>> It's plenty. I get it.
>> Plenty.
>> Eric, what I'm asking is is what I was
trying to ask is so each sample that was
taken, individual sample was tested by
one lab, not split between the two labs,
so they could compare their samples.
Correct.
>> Yeah, that's stupidity. I'm sorry,
Scott.
>> Well, but the reason is is that the the
consulting engineering firm that we use
has to submit them to DOT. They're the
only ones that they're authorized to
test samples at, whereas the private
contractor can use uh whoever they want.
I mean, you know, I I would tend to
trust Material Testing Labs. That's who
we use for asphalt um and other
compression testing as a town. Um
they're a good company. Um I cannot
explain the discrepancy between the two
results. Um and I've never really known
anybody that could. Um, you know, the
only two possibilities anybody came up
with is it it was either a bad, you
know, batch of grout or a bad bag of
grout that particular sample was made
from. Um, you know, or
there was too much water. But what Allan
said is that the grout is is less
sensitive to water than a standard
mortar mix. So they would have had to
been not just a little bit off, they
would have had to been off,
you know, immensely for that to not be
um or it really was a a testing mistake
on the part of uh Gondot.
>> Okay,
>> that's
all right. Anybody Anybody?
>> So from Scott, from your visual being
down there all the time, the the pilings
are poured.
It's they're the abupments are are made.
They're ready to go. And even at 1500
PSI, they're never moving.
>> They're never gonna move.
>> Okay.
>> All right.
>> That's my uh that's my uh
professional opinion
being down there and I'm a bridge
designer. Jeff,
>> I like it. Uh anybody else have any
other questions?
>> I just had a question. And it said that
the CT do a 28-day grout compressive
strength test. Is that what material
testings did to the same thing that 28
day to come up with their 7790 to 10,010
PSI?
>> The it was supposed to be submitted at
28 days. What day they actually
submitted? Um, it could have been a few
days longer, but um, I don't know
exactly. I mean, I would have to go down
and look at Allen's actual uh, you know,
logs to see what date they submitted to
MDL.
>> I mean, the issue is you didn't test in
my in my How many pylons did they they
pour, Scott?
>> 12.
>> 12 on each side. They tested
>> they tested from two.
>> Well, so
>> because you only poured one day, they
tested on each side and they only tested
the grout from two of those. They they
they test the mixture at a given point
in time in the pour.
>> Yes.
>> Okay,
>> that's correct.
>> All right. So even if we had one bad
bag, we have like 10 other good bags and
there's nothing we there's honestly
nothing we as a board or as a town is if
this engineering firm says that's good
and national shoring takes I mean I
guess I would ask just from like my
background is there anything that we get
them to sign Eric? I mean they're not
going to be around probably in 75 years.
It's the same reason we had them pour
the new concrete beams. You can't trust
they'll be around. So
>> going to be around for whatever two or
three 400 years that it's going to be
around forever. That's a solid solid
bridge.
>> But he's talking about the business
going out of business and the town
doesn't have any backup. Is there like
any kind of an insurance policy or
anything that we can get on this bridge?
because a written guarantee from a
company that goes out of business
um just isn't worth much.
>> I mean and that is why we rejected the
fix on the beams.
But
you know if
the engineering firm that's required to
do the structural calculations
for the
uh micro piles proves that even using
the lowest possible assumption it still
passes the structure test.
>> There's not a lot you're going to do.
The only thing different that we don't
have now that we've asked for is them to
show us
>> the full calculations. I mean, they've
sent us a a stamped approval letter with
his professional seal as an engineer on
it. Um, but we don't have the final, you
know, the calculation tables. Um, and
we're not going to sign the the report.
you know, some there's something that
ultimately myself and the engineer from
DOT um and the contractor are going to
have to sign and it's called the MAT
103, which is a report of rejected
material um which is something that
happens anytime a material used in
construction has failed some aspect of
testing. So we are going to have to do
that but I don't think you're going to
get national shoring to issue any kind
of letter because from their perspective
this is a fully compliant
uh installation.
>> Okay. I mean listen it's kind of hard to
sit there and go back and try to get any
of these pylons because they're all
buried.
>> I know. And that that was the problem
with with uh
>> All right. So, so let's go this way for
the public. If it if there they were
1500 PSI, the 1500 PSI, uh, if it was
1500 PSI through the entire all the
pylons, which it wasn't because some of
the other testing came back at 7,500 to
10,000
>> 75,
>> we have one potential piling that's a
problem and we have 12 pylons. So
>> either side,
>> Eric, just update us as to the material
103 report and what ends up happening
and if there's any um there's anything
that we can do for this. And I'm
assuming DOT is also taking an
aggressive approach to this. You know,
it's not just the town or is DOT just
pushing it back on the town and saying
it's the town's responsibility? I'm
assuming they're not.
>> Well, ultimately the town has to sign
the MAT 103.
Um,
you know, the town has to authorize its
use. Um, but I really don't see any
option.
I mean, we would be essentially starting
over and having to make longer beams and
repour a new footing farther back with
new micro piles. That's the the ultimate
problem with this is that and part of
the reason I think they so radically
overdesign the micro pile design is
because you almost can't recover for
that like there's no mechanism I asked
that question of the bridge engineer
could he does could he add and specify
another six microp piles outside the
original abupment and then structurally
tie him in and their answer is no. Once
the abupman is poured, it can't be
because the abupman is designed to be
integral
with the the uh bridge beams. And so the
bridge beam is tied to the abupman, but
the abupman is not tied to the parapit
wall, and it's not tied to what's called
the approach slab. So that could
actually bend or move independently of
the parapit um either seasonally or you
know if somebody drove a you know 16
Abram tanks over it at the same time or
something like that. So you can't go
back and reverse engineer a support for
that. You would basically be starting
over. Um which clearly we're not going
to do, nor do I think we have to. Right.
Um from my end just please update us on
the the Matt 103 and what progress is
made related to that.
>> Yeah. So um I did uh uh yesterday I got
a revised twoe uh look ahead from
schedule from NJR. So the crane is on
site now. They were putting it together
when uh shortly before this meeting. Um
they should have the beams installed by
Thursday uh and be grouting and
post-tensioning beams um Thursday Friday
time frame and then immediately set up
to form and pour the bridge deck. So
there's about eight more pores that have
to be done sequentially on this project.
Um, but it looks like they're in really
good shape from the the other thing
that's good for my perspective is uh the
crane is the last real subcontractor
up until we're paving that the general
contractor has to use. everything else
is under his control because it's his
guys and so far everything they've done
themselves has been on time and hasn't
been a problem. So I think at this point
the only things that would uh cause
significant project delay are weather
related. either we got a really really
big rain event um that flooded out the
construction area uh because remember
part of Bunker Hill Road um is quite a
bit lower than the bridge and if the
water's flowing over uh in the project
area um the project would be delayed.
And the second thing is if we got a
really cold November and really easy
snowstorms, potentially the asphalt
plants could shut down, but I think
those are are unlikely
um you know, unlikely to occur. So it it
looks to me like we're back on on track
in a reasonable fashion. Okay. Anybody
else have any questions related to the
Bunker Hill Bridge project?
Okay, Eric, what else do you want to go
over?
>> Um, just do are there any other
questions from the administrator's
report?
>> Um, I do have one.
>> The town clerk's office. Um I know that
uh Lauren Persan is is
in the the u acting director or acting
clerk and you have Heidi from uh union.
>> Yep.
>> Please um my biggest mental issue
related to that is making sure that all
of the election items are taken care of
properly. So please work with Lauren to
make sure that all those filings are
done timely and accurately. so that we
don't have any file any issues with the
election in November.
>> Yes, that is the goal. And one of the
reasons why we chose Heidi was because
uh Union doesn't have elections
um in November this time around. So, she
has the time and the availability to
work on Andover's elections from the
town clerk's perspective. Okay.
All right.
Anybody else have any other questions
related to other items? Uh, well, I'll
ask another one. What the heck? Uh, the
resident state trooper.
>> Sure.
>> Um,
so I know we had a question in public
speak related to that. I'm assuming in
the September report, we'll see the 17
tickets.
>> We should.
>> Okay. All right. Thank you.
>> So, yeah. I mean I so the arrangement I
have with the barracks right now is that
they will periodically surge in Andover
um and do targeted enforcement um until
we have our regular resident trooper
back uh in service.
>> Okay. And my last one, the long hill
bridge um
is going to be done in 2026.
>> That's correct. and the light on Andy
and
Route Six. I see that got it approved.
>> That is correct.
>> Oh, when do when do we anticipate that
being installed?
>> Uh shortly before the road is closed at
Long and it will be a temporary light
only. Um they still are refusing to make
it permanent. Um, but at least we'll
have it for the period of construction
when there'll be the greatest uh
inconvenience to residents.
Okay, so
>> thanks for doing that, Eric. Thanks for
sticking by it and getting it done. Good
job.
>> Thank you.
>> Any other issues for Eric?
Okay, let's move on to uh item eight,
old business. Uh item 8A is the Bunker
Hill Bridge update. We've covered that.
Um, item 8B, the OSHA update quickly.
>> Um, we're pretty much wrapping that up
finally. The last real step had been to,
uh, write and put in place all the
lockout tagout procedures for equipment.
Uh, I worked with Zach
um, a couple days last week and we
completed all of that. Uh, and I'm
submitting the rest of that back to OSHA
in a couple of days. Hopefully, they
don't have any problem with it. And
that's basically the last thing we need
for compliance other than we are going
to uh have to institute a hearing
monitoring program for public works
because when they miked up public works
for a day of work several of the pieces
of equipment the 8hour noise threshold
for the employees was over the minimum
that you could have without a a
monitoring and testing program. So we
will be instituting that at some point.
>> That's it.
>> All right. Um HC and over finest update.
>> I don't have anything.
>> Carol,
>> I don't know if every anybody had a
chance to look at it, but yesterday I
had sent out I took Paula's document and
just updated it. Um, I was hoping that
rather than keep pushing it down to the
next month, we could
maybe put that document out there and
start taking nominations next month so
that we can
select
the nominees in January. I know that um
part of it the award was going to be a
brick in the walkway for the community
center, but that walkway is done. So, I
know the last time it was suggested by
Ann that we do a nice plaque and just
display it in the community room of the
town office building or the community
center, wherever you decide.
>> Um, but it that's I updated that portion
of it just to say that it would be a
plaque rather than
>> bricks.
It's supposed to be a brick patio,
not a walkway. Patio.
>> Okay. The original document did say a
walkway though. So, a brick. It
>> didn't say walkway. It was a It was a
patio.
>> I I actually think I I actually think
the plaque is a better idea.
>> Um, and Carol, I I did not get a chance
to read that, but I I would ask you
this. Let's let's read that and put it
out to the community anyway. We need to
sit there and
>> get moving on it. So,
>> yes.
>> And maybe get the nomination forms on
our website along with that updated
criteria.
>> Yeah, no problem.
>> So, we can rather than keep moving it
because it's every month for several
months. We just keep pushing it further
down the road.
>> Okay.
>> Yeah, we should get that out.
>> Yes, definitely.
>> All right. Thank you. Um,
>> Eric, please sit there and put that out.
And and Eric, one other thing on the
website. I do like your nice color
coding.
>> I don't have it.
>> So, you'll have to give it to
>> We'll get it to you. Carol, if you can
get that to Eric and send that to him.
That would be great.
>> Okay.
and we'll sit there and let's put that
out on the website and let's get that to
um some of the residents Diane Grineer
and some of the other residents that are
very uh passionate about and fin
uh 8D the status of the field
improvements. Um, uh, Eric, I know that,
um,
that we have Christine Randazzo with us
related to that and and any of the
members have any questions as to where
we're at with the project? I know
Scott's been engaged in it. Um,
>> yeah.
>> So,
I have a couple of questions.
Um, at our last meeting, Eric, you told
us that we public works wasn't able to
help and do anything in the project
because the former director had left.
Now, yesterday uh in the afternoon, we
did get the updated email from you with
the updated cost saying that the public
works can do some of this work to get
under our budget gap.
What was what is the budget for
completing this project? I know we got
the $500,000 steep grant that was
approved for acceptance by the voters at
a special town meeting February of last
year.
>> And they also approved a $150,000
town match. Now, um, the original
quote that you sent us on September 9th
said that the cost was going to be
995,81460.
The updated one that you sent us
uh, Sunday afternoon was $887,5892.
That's a different of difference of over
108,000.
So, I'm just curious because I was
looking at the updated and in red there
were
um item 82, 152, and 153
says labor only and it excludes
material.
And then 80 75 83 124 and 148 say NP
tasks. Is that did you mean for public
works tasks? Those are the tasks that
public works 7583 1248
that they're going to do.
So, where it says NPT,
that means if you you look at most of
the the tasks in here, they're break
broken out by code. And it's basically
some unit quantity and a cost per unit
quantity and then a modifier based on
whether it's a small amount that you're
doing or a large amount that you're
doing. like um but when it says NPT task
that is something where there's nothing
in their overall book regarding that
particular item like you'll see an NPT
for the playground and that was because
the playground committee looked at
multiple estimates from three or four
different manufacturers
and then decided which manufacturer they
liked best and then went back to that
manufacturer and modified the proposal
multiple times until the playground
committee got exactly what what they
wanted. So NPT means it's not a
precosted
task. It's a cost that's given to us by
a vendor that's just uh so so it's not
something that comes out of their book
because they can't you know you could
specify a playground but every
playground is different. Um so there's
one for that there's one for the clo
farms. The reason 148 for the light pole
shows up as NPT is because to get this
through the uh planning and zoning
commission because it's exterior
lighting and it needs a special permit
under our regulations.
We had to specify a manufacturer
and show the ISO diagram. So once we did
that, either the manufacturer, either
the designer would have to go back and
pay another lighting engineer to find a
different package that conformed or they
had to use exactly those fixtures that
we had specified in our lighting design.
So that is what 148 is
>> and that is the soft lighting that was
required by the zoning regs.
Well, it's more than just um so there
there's a bunch of things that uh a
lighting plan has to include. So, it has
to have the uh light intensity at
various different locations. Like on a
playing court, you don't want some parts
to be in shadows and some parts to be
brightly lit. So, there's a minimum and
maximum illumination off the playing
field. There's also a requirement that
the lighting not on the playing field
has to be h it has to be dropped off
pretty dramatically. And partly this is
because it's right next to a wetlands.
Um and so you can't you're not
technically supposed to have a bunch of
stray light into the wetlands. Um and
the second is there's something called a
color temperature for lighting. Um, like
if I look behind you, that light that
shows up behind you in your image, that
is a very soft white or very yellow
light. And if you look what's on mine,
you'll see a very cold white light
because cold white light is much better
for an office environment. Um, but
there's
uh a standard for athletic fields and
then there's a competing standard for
things that are near wetlands
um to minimize impacts to the little
critters and the salamanders and stuff
like that. So, uh, this lighting package
offered a compromise between those two
so that it passed muster with our
consulting herpatologist,
um, and got through the wetlands
commission and also satisfied the zoning
commission and our current lighting
regulations.
>> Okay. Um because I just remembered the
soccer and the issue with the lighting
there and that's why they didn't
continue with their lease with the town.
>> Um correct. Now, the other three, and
I'm sorry, I know I threw everything out
there all together, but 82, 152, and 153
>> on the new states, labor only
>> excludes materials.
Oh, that's
I would suspect somewhere else in there
there are the ballards. Um, so that's
just saying that that it's they're
charging just for the installation on
that particular line item. And that all
depends on how it is in their book. Um,
some things are installed like for
instance, if you order gravel, you know,
if you need x number of feet of gravel,
you're going to get charged for trucking
gravel, you're going to get charged for
placing gravel, and you're going to get
charged for compacting gravel, for
instance. And if you got to move it by
hand from one place to the other because
you can't get in a truck in there,
there'll be a separate fee for that. So
somewhere in there you would probably
see the a line item for a steel baller.
Um
>> is that part of the playground equipment
which is a whole other section?
>> Uh
>> these numbers were under the subtopic
utilities. So anything associated with a
utility on the project.
Yeah, I'm not sure what those particular
ballards are or why there's
>> Well, let's go to
>> You know what? That's probably fencing
is my guess.
>> Um, if it's around 12,
>> it could be the lighting the lighting
board, I think. Uh, Eric,
I hold the light pole up.
Yeah, the they will probably be down to
the frost line um buried as well as
above uh the mean high water for that
area because it does experience flood.
So, they're probably
a good size.
>> Okay. So, Carol's original question and
and I think it's something that should
be outlined is the project, you know, we
we know we got um
>> 650,000
>> and we got another we got another grant
>> which
Carol let's let's just get the numbers
and then we'll ask questions. So, I know
the project says 995.
>> Explain where the money is coming from,
Eric. So we we're all
>> so we got the project down by shifting
some of the tasks and basically what you
know what I said Carol is we don't
really have the ability for public works
to do the significant portion of
construction on this right now. Um but
there's a bunch of tasks that we could
carve out for public works that's well
within their existing capabilities. The
first is clearing and grubbing of the
site because the cost for clearing and
grubbing I thought was a little
excessive in their proposal. Um, so we
took that back. There's a bunch of stuff
that can get, you know, they were going
to charge us to get rid of that uh
basically crush and remove that uh the
shed that was there because it's right
in the middle of everything. Um, so I'm
just gonna have public works haul the
thing to the public works garage, um,
and get that out of there. Um, they had
money in there for collapsing, uh,
grouting the well that's there, um, and
pulling the well casing. Again, that's
something public works can do, and I
thought their costs were high for that.
So what I've done is basically said,
okay, what are the tasks that I don't
want to tie up public works in the
middle of the project? In other words, I
don't want to be the contractor does a
little, then we do a little, then the
contractor does a little because that's
too hard to coordinate right now. So,
what I'm saying is we can get public
works to do the simple prep work steps,
which we're we kind of have the
equipment and we're optimized to do and
public works and Abbey Construction can
do the final parking lot once the pickle
ball courts and the playgrounds are in.
we can have them do the parking lot just
as part of our normal paving uh you know
operations and use material from our pit
for the subbase for the gravel and then
just bring in you know good fill for the
gravel lot and for the handicapped
parking. So, my goal was to take the
initial steps um that could be done
before the contractor starts to work and
then take the last step out and let
public works do that so we could get it
under budget and actually do it.
>> Okay. So, the total says the total on
the document that that we all have is
995 814 815.
>> Correct. No, yesterday we got an updated
one for 887589
if we have the public works do all of
this, but that still is over the 650,000
that was approved at our special town
meeting in February of 2024 for this
project. So, I'm just wondering, I know
you did tell me that we could um
piggyback grants and piggyback the
quarter of a million dollar legislative
GL grant that we just received with
this, but I checked on the steep grant
application and it said that all project
funding must be secured as of the time
of the application and I'm assuming that
you applied for this back in 2020. 23
and we just received that quarter of a
million dollar legislative grant. So
we're we're well above that 650,000
even at the 88, you know, with shaving
off the $108,226.58
with public works.
All right, Eric, can you just go through
the funding mechanisms?
>> So, but that is the so the what steep
says in the steep project basically says
is that if you apply it for a grant for
X amount of money, that's what we're
going to give you. And if you go over in
costs, it is the town's responsibility
to make up the difference. So, we are
making up the difference, but we're
making it up with another state grant
that we're adding on to this. So, we are
still only charging steep $500,000,
which is what we are obligated to do. We
are still only spending $150,000
of town money. We are going to spend an
additional $250,000
from a legislative appropriation. and
we're going to spend the $10,000 grant
that the Hartford Foundation for Public
Giving gave us. So theoretically, we
have about $910,000
that could be spent on this project, but
um you know at $8.87 you have a little
possibility of a contingency if
something comes up. Number one. And
number two, if you get to the end and
you still got a little money left over
because you will have already spent the
steep money and you were already spent
the town match because that's a
requirement to get the steep money, then
you can either use a little bit of the
legislative funding for something else
or you can use it for furniture and
tables and stuff like that for the
pavilion. So, I think we're okay. Um,
you know, I'm quite thankful we got the
legislative grant because if not, we
would have really been struggling. Um,
it just sounded that application where
it said that all project funding
must be secured as of the time of the
application of the steep grant.
Well, Carol,
>> the thing that I'm quite
>> understood, but um then you break the
project into two different components
and you sit there and you say the
project is the pickle ball courts is is
the 650 and the 250,000 is the
playground and we sit there and get it
funded as long, Eric, as we have it
funded with no other strings attached
that are other issues there.
what we did when we originally went and
requested the 650 that or we got the 650
the $500,000 steep grant with the 20%
match. You know, that's fine. So, you're
looking at the legislative
aotment of the $250,000
to cover the remainder of the playground
and the other costs related to the
upgrade to the field. And there's no
town required funding for the $250,000.
Okay.
>> There is none.
>> Okay. Carol, any any specific questions
as to um
>> the only thing I just wanted to make
sure we don't have to go to a special
town meeting or anything on this?
>> Okay.
>> So, and and that is a really good
question. Um, in my head, the answer
that we don't have to go is we've
already gone to town meeting to commit
the $150,000
of town money. Um,
so
we already have that commitment and
we're not increasing that value.
Everything else we're spending is non-t
tax or non-local tax dollar because it's
all tax dollars. I mean,
>> well, do us a favor and let's um let's
talk to the town attorney and sit there
and get an understanding whether we
should or shouldn't go to a town
meeting. And then that way, I mean, I
would particularly say we don't need to
because as you said, we're not putting
up any additional funding, but let's sit
there and find out. Okay.
>> Okay.
>> Send us an email tomorrow once he gives
you an an uh an answer so that we all
know what's up.
Okay, Dennis, call me in the morning.
>> Is Dennis on? Dennis, how are you? Um,
okay. Um,
>> are there any questions that you have
for either Christine or Sarah because
they're the ones that have been kind of
the principles on pushing this through
and they came on the meeting hopefully
to answer questions you had about
specifics of the design or anything like
that.
>> When are you going to get the pickle
ball courts ready for Scott?
That's That's about
I don't know if everybody knows this.
Scott is a pickle ball player.
>> Scott, you can smile when I say that.
>> No.
>> Okay, fine.
>> Sarah's got a Sarah's the one that did
the playground thing. And I got to tell
you that that was a very, very difficult
thing that she did. She spent many,
many, many hours and weekends going from
playground to playground. And this was
over months and months. She did a
outstanding job
doing that playground. The playground is
is very hard because there's not two
pieces of playground equipment they're
the same. It was a very difficult job
and I we have to commend her for
>> Yeah.
>> putting out so much effort. She did a
great job.
>> I concur.
>> Me too. I was I was in the fields on
Saturday for soccer and I'm really
excited for when we have a playground
there for all the other kids to to play
on then and at any time. So hoping to
make it happen.
>> Okay. Uh anyone have any specific
questions?
I mean I'll I'll sit there and I'll ask
Christine one. I was looking at the
document that's in the packet and I was
going over how this process works. Have
um
have we identified anyone in town that
has some experience in these types of
projects to look at the
some of these multipliers or these
factors to sit there and see if they
make sense.
So the multipliers for the line items.
>> Yeah. So they give you a quantity for
what they're supposed to do and then a
unit price and then the factor. And the
factor looks like it's it's something
that's just is that a statemandated
number, Eric, or is that Crag related?
How are they determining that factor?
>> Uh I think that's 17% is their standard
overhead and profit.
>> Yeah,
>> that's their that's their overhead. I
think there's an allowable range that
they can be between and they have to
state it explicitly and yeah, it does
inflate every line item.
>> So that's why we went back from the 995
and just went item by item. What what
could we do? What don't we need? Um so
we can afford this with a buffer for
contingencies. You can't just go right
up to 910 and hope everything goes
smoothly.
>> So there is one other thing we could
chat about a little bit. Um, but
I am kind of okay with it because I
think it protects our ars is that they
also pass on the cost of the
construction bond for this. Um,
obviously
um that's almost $17,000.
Uh, they don't care whether we bond it.
Um,
you know, it's just a question of
whether you want to roll the dice on
there being a problem with it. Um, you
know, they ordinarily build the bond
into the proposal. That's line 60. Um,
that's the the reimburseable fee. Um,
you know, we can save an extra $16,000
by foregoing the bond. Um, I don't think
that's a particularly good idea, but we
can do it.
>> Okay. Um,
how much can we bond it for?
>> Isn't it just insurance?
>> Correct.
I mean, I'm What's Scott asked is can we
bond it?
>> Probably not. And I I I would say,
>> not being the general contractor, I
don't think so.
>> But um
All right. I I we did receive the the
plans on this playground, the final
completed plans. Have Have the board
received those?
>> Yes, you have.
>> All right. I need to sit there and re
get that email and recall that and Okay,
I I I listen, I don't have any problem.
I think you guys have done a great job
and I look forward to the pickle ball
courts being installed and the
playground being installed and you know
making it a much more uh
friendlier facility for all the members
of the community. So,
>> so other than the legal question for
Dennis,
uh what as to whether this has to go
back to town meeting? Um
how do we want to proceed?
>> What do you need from us?
Well, if if we're going to do this as
is, you would need to authorize I mean,
I'm not signing a $880,000
purchase order without the board uh
voting to accept it. There are a couple
things in this proposal that I still
plan on going back to the contractor and
addressing
um because I think uh they took out the
the final grading of the parking lot,
but they didn't take out some of the
other aspects of the parking lot and I I
think public works can legitimately do
that, too. So, I'm not saying this is a
final document, but it's not far from a
final document. And the question is, do
you authorize the committee or do you
authorize me on behalf of the committee
uh to sign the agreement with the
Gordian Group to get this project going?
Um and if if not, what else would you
like to see or do before that would
happen?
>> Well, what is your what is the plan
right now to start this project?
Uh, well, presuming you're okay with it,
I'm going to have public works starting
to clear and grub by the end of this
week.
>> This week? This
>> with my goal getting public works in and
out of there in the next 10 days or so.
Um, because I got to free him up by
October to uh do some equipment
maintenance.
>> Um, so I'd like to get that started as
fast as possible. Um, I would like I
would very much like to get this going
because we know if we get into uh
January 1, we're going to be paying
roughly a 6% increase in playground
costs.
>> So, I would like to get that ordered.
>> Um, and I think there's a series of
things. Do I think they're going to get
the pickle ball courts in this fall? No.
But I think potentially we can get the
playground ordered and roughed in this
fall and at least get some of the work
done before it gets too cold this year.
So that would be my goal is to get this
signed as soon as possible and then you
know get as much done as we can um as
fast a rate as we can.
>> Yeah.
>> What's 6% Jeff of 887?
Well, it's not 887.
>> It's the playgrounds, you know, it's a
hundred. It's roughly $200,000.
>> So, that's around a $12,000 adder if we
don't make that.
>> Yeah.
>> Yeah. Prices change on the playground um
December 5th. So even if we can just
secure the ones that were agreed upon
and they can hold payment till we take
receipt just as long as they receive
before December 5th. We are hoping to
not waste any more monies
going past that date.
>> All right. Um,
so
>> other than the the issue of town
meeting, I mean, Eric, what I would I
what I listen, I'll make a motion that
we we approve
the uh we approve Eric Anderson on
behalf of the board of selectmen to
approve the contract
for the construction of
the playground and pickleball courts at
Veterans Memorial Field contingent uh
upon on an answer regarding town
meeting.
>> Second that
>> further discussion
>> and we just authorize that the road crew
goes in and starts doing that
preliminary work until we get an answer.
>> Well, that's why I was after what the
start date was, Carol, and and we could
them to sit there and just go do the
preliminary work.
>> Um
I mean, honestly, we're going to do this
project.
>> The issue from our standpoint is is
>> that we're procedurally doing it
correct. That's all
>> correct. And so the issue is that if we
have to go to town meeting, then it's
contingent on the answer related to town
meeting. If we don't have to go to town
meeting,
>> then
>> are we well are we in agreement that
we're going to move forward with the
project as a board? That's what the vote
would be.
>> Right.
>> Sure.
>> Yeah. Move forward with it, but I'm just
saying to authorize signing contracts
three weeks
before our next meeting. Um,
>> Eric, does the three weeks cause you a
problem signing the contract?
>> Uh,
not that I know of.
Um, but the sooner we're in the
pipeline, the sooner we're likely to
have work done on it.
>> Um,
listen, we're going to get this project
done. Carol,
>> I think we should get it done.
>> So, what we're authorizing Eric to do is
find out if we need a town meeting. If
we need a town meeting, that goes to the
legislative authority, the town, and and
the voters. We're going to have a town
meeting to vote on this. and we would
have a meeting to vote on the additional
$250,000
legislative uh uh grant that was that
Eric obtained. Um
>> I I just say we vote on it. So it was
seconded.
>> Anything else?
>> So Eric, we're going to vote on this.
You're going to go find out if we need a
town meeting. If we don't need meeting,
you are authorized to keep it under
budget,
>> right?
>> Yeah.
>> Okay. All right. Um,
we'll do roll call. Any
>> I
>> Carol Lee,
>> I'm going to abstain.
>> Okay. Scott Person.
>> I Jeff Magcguire. I 301.
All right. Eric, get us an answer on the
town meeting and then we can move
forward.
Um Sarah and Christine, thank you very
much for uh what you guys have done. I
appreciate all your work. Scott, you as
well and the committee. So, thank you
very much.
>> Thank you.
>> Okay. Um
>> Christine,
>> thank you.
>> Thank you.
>> 8 squad squad rescue pumper update.
Eric, where are we at with the lease
agreement and the lease documents from
Mnt? Uh, so supposedly we're going to be
ready for final signing on Thursday.
>> Okay.
>> Um,
>> and the squad pumper is where?
>> The squad pumper is in Norwalk.
>> In Norwalk.
>> Okay. All right. Um 8F the Andover
Elementary School RFP for bathroom
renovations.
>> I don't have any update.
That is um the RFP for the bathroom
renovation is all taken care of. The
general contractor has been chosen along
with the subcontractors
and we you can check the minutes from
the last week's BOE meeting to get all
the names of those people. They should
be posted in a day or two.
And I'm gonna tell you, I need you to
schedule a meeting with the board of
education
because that's not how this should go.
>> That's the way it has gone in the past.
Whenever there was a project, the school
>> and that's a $300,000 project.
Where did the bid
>> the roof when they replaced the roof
of me talking? I understand you
represent the board of education. I
represent the town of Andover, which
includes the board of education and the
school.
So, please,
we are one town. It's taxpayer money and
it's not being done correctly.
>> It is being done.
>> I will call I will call the chairperson
of the board of education and I will
call the superintendent. We will be
having a meeting.
This is not how this stuff is going to
get done in the future. This is
terrible.
Terrible.
>> It's all done. It's going to be
progressing.
>> You got to get the money.
>> Board of Education.
>> How are you? How are you going to get
the money? Really?
How are you going to get the money?
>> You go to finance and tell them that you
didn't do it correctly. What are we
going to do? This is terrible. This is
not how this organization should work.
We are all volunteers.
It's disgusting.
And you're supposed to be representing
the town.
>> Yeah. That's okay.
>> Not the school.
>> Represent the board of education.
>> I went to the board of education
meeting.
>> Yeah.
>> And this is what this has been done. And
if you go back and look 10 years ago or
so when their roof was replaced, it was
just as big of an investment. And this
is the way it was done.
>> Did the bids go to the superintendent to
get opened?
They
>> I believe they um
there's another firm that was I'm trying
to think of the name of the firm now
that uh has been running all that.
>> So So the engineering firm
>> Yeah.
>> ran ran the bids and opened the bids in
a you know
>> I believe I'm not sure but I just know
it's been done and it's all set.
>> Okay.
>> You can check with Valerie. I will love
to check with Valerie.
Okay. Uh,
so we have no information on the
renovation. So it's a town building.
There's no information on the
renovation.
>> Ann, are you still Ann? That that is a
town building. A town owned building.
>> Why are we not informed is in charge of
it?
>> Ann, why are we not informed about that?
It's town money, taxpayer money also.
Why don't we know anything about that?
>> It's available. Just contact the board
of ed. Go to the board of ed meetings
and you'll see it.
>> None of us knew about it. We've been
waiting for months. Nothing has
happened.
>> Eric doesn't know anything. Jeff doesn't
know anything provided to the board of
select.
>> Nothing was provided.
>> Administrator to the building
department.
>> Okay.
>> Carol, did you know about this?
I just to answer the question,
>> I heard there was an RFP going out. Yes,
I did. Eric,
>> what else did you know about it?
>> So, you're not representing the town
either?
>> Uh, you know what? That's uncalled for
to stand here and accuse
>> No, it's called
This is definitely wrong.
>> No, no. You asked me a question. I told
you that I had heard an RFP was going
out. That's all that I heard was an RFP
was going out. I don't know what the
process is. I don't know anything. Eric,
did you have any of the information on
that RFP when it was sent out, who was
handling it or any of that?
>> Uh,
several months ago
>> because I believe you're the person who
told me the RFP was was going out. So, I
was told they were submitting an RFP,
>> and I informed the board of selectmen,
which is why it was on the agenda,
>> and I stated to the board that I didn't
have any information on the RFP, nor did
I have a copy of the RFP. Um, that
hasn't changed. I still don't have a
copy of the RFP. I still don't have any
details of the RFP. Um,
it's I don't either. And I didn't ask
for one either when you said it was
going out. So Scott, for you to point
fingers and say all this about that
Carol, I don't think there's no right
doing that.
>> I don't I Scott, I actually think you're
wrong to point at Carol like that.
Honestly, I'll sit there. I'll give
Carol and No.
>> And Ann,
too. She gave
>> Absolutely not.
>> Jeff, she gave you a rundown of the
information she had. So that's what I
did. just don't think that it's right to
sit here and point fingers and start
hollering at each other and making
accusations to
>> work
uh selectman Murray was the member of
our board that was on that he was asked
to be on that committee and he's not
here decided that he could not attend
today's meeting uh understandable
personal issues that's fine
still not the way that the two boards
should be dealing with a town building.
That's not the way it's supposed to
work. It's not the way it should work.
And and I I'm going to give the benefit
of the doubt that the people that were
on that committee did it the correct
way. But Carol, I'll sit there and I'll
go from you past town clerk. Shouldn't
all those bids go to the town clerk's
office and be opened in an appropriate
manner?
>> So, I will tell you historically all
town bids used to come into the clerk's
office. We would stamp them in, keep
them locked in the vault, and at the
time of opening, we would walk down to
the community room with Eric, the town
administrator, prior first selectman
with those bids, and they would be
opened in public pre presence.
I have not received any I in my 26
years, I never did have a school RFP
come into my office. The roof project
was not did not come through. The
$400,000 roof project did not come
through your building.
>> No, the library project did. Okay. The
library windows, all the library bids,
things like that. But I did not have
those RFPs. No. And some of the RFPs
stayed. Just so you're aware, it
depended on the administrator as to
whether or not they were handled through
the administrator's office because Eric,
I believe there were a couple of RFPs
that did just strictly go through your
office. Is that correct
>> for what?
>> I don't know, but there were a couple
that I didn't even know there was an RFP
out.
>> Okay. But we they've all everything was
published on the town's website and
everything was
you know the mail to address was the
town clerk's. I don't think that we did
any RFPs where we didn't have them sent
to the town clerk's office. If we did, I
don't recall it. We we need we need to
just outline procedures for all town
buildings and it needs to be approved
and we got to get it to a town meeting
and get it done so that it's not the
board of selectmen that sits there and
says this is how it's going to happen.
We have the entire legislative body of
this town update sit there and say hey
listen this is how things should be
done. We should all work together. We
should all sit there and get every bid
going through the town clerk's office
because
>> you have the idea that the town does the
school stuff and that's not right. The
school, as you can see from Carol, has
always done that themselves.
>> Then an then it's a
>> that's all I'm telling you.
>> I I'll sit there and I'll go when we
rebuilt that tech that that school and
we built that school, there's no way it
went through the that board. Just not
how this town was run in the past. I'll
guarantee it. And maybe what we maybe
what we've done wrong is we don't have a
board of selectment member on that board
so that we have no internal
communication.
That that's probably our biggest
problem. Um okay listen we've got no
information. We have a difference of of
opinion a significant difference of
opinion as to how these things should be
handled for the benefit of the entire
community. and uh we need to sit there
and and and work on it
>> and if we are going to write a policy on
and procedure on RFPs and handling of
RFPs
then we'll do that but
>> I I don't see anything other than how
it's been handled in the past
and
>> I have nothing on the I'm not on the
board of education. I just go to the
meetings and listen. That's all I do.
I'm not telling I can't tell them what
to do.
>> But they can tell you what to do.
>> That's my
>> They don't tell me what to do. I just
reported because it's on the agenda
here.
>> Nope. That's okay.
>> And you got the information, but we
didn't get the information.
>> You can look go to the board of ed
meeting.
>> We didn't realize that that's where we
had to go look. We would think being the
board of select selectmen that we would
have that information.
>> Well, just thinking that it's a town
building and we're spending $300,000 of
taxpayer money that
>> Okay.
>> No problem. Understood. Let's just move
on because we'll sit there and stick on
this one for a long time. Uh 8G donation
for Hopenhajes.
>> Sure. If you remember back uh several
meetings ago,
uh we asked where you wanted to what how
you wanted to deal with the money that
was donated to the town from the running
race that used town assets and always
contributes back to the town. And the
board was going to come back with ideas
about how and where to spend the money.
anyone?
>> Eric, is that the money that in the past
went into that uh recreation commission
liability account where you got the
safety vests and things like that for
residents?
>> Uh well, the safety vest didn't come
from that. The last thing that I know of
that we spent the Hop and Hodgeges money
on was for the picnic table that went
down by Lake Road in that little picnic
area off of the brook on the town's
property adjacent to the rail trail.
>> Um I I sort of remember vaguely like
three or four years ago we put it in
specific recreation line items and
that's certainly that could be
appropriate. I don't have any
preconceived notions where the money
should go.
>> I mean, if the treasur is just looking
for a quick place to put it, that would
be a nice area because if we do need
picnic tables down at the new uh pickle
ball courts and that uh the money would
be easy access.
Yeah, to be honest, I think she probably
has already found a spot to stuff it in
just simply because she's already had to
close out that fiscal year and we got
that in the last fiscal year. Um I can
find out where I'm sure wherever it was
placed it's still spendable. Um um so I
can ask for that. The the the question
really is, do you have any specific that
you want to spend a little bit of extra
budgetary money that that you have? Is
there anything particular that you see
as a a good place to spend it?
>> How much was it?
>> You have to ask me that. I have to look
at last meeting. I think it's about
$1,500. Something in that range.
>> Okay. Thank you.
Well, why don't we, Carol, why don't we
make a motion to put it in the
recreation committee with explicit use
of of spending it on Well, actually,
>> I think Eric said she already put it in
some Cheryl already found a liability
account to put that in, right, Eric?
>> Yeah. And I suspect it actually already
is in the wreck uh liability account
that it's not really so much cuz she
already had to make a decision on where
to go because that year is closed out.
So the the question is really is there
something that we have a good use for
that money because that's something
given to the town basically
you know by the contractor and I would
think it would be spent on some sort of
recreation or public facing improvement
>> just hold on to it and if we do need
anything at the new pickle ball courts
in the playscape area
that's extra money we could use.
>> That would be a wonderful use of those
funds. And and what we should do is
anytime we have things like that that
are generating additional money, we
should try to put them back into
something similar. Um
so,
>> okay.
>> Okay. Um
>> a little later too.
>> 8H NIP program request for expenditure.
>> Yeah, I apologize. you had asked me to
ask Megan Lai for more details on
exactly and give you a full-blown
project proposal for that. Um, when I
was reviewing for this board of
selectman meeting, I realized in my
notes that I had never talked to her
about that. So, I did reach out to her
last week, but I know she's pretty sick
right now. So, she had hoped to have it
for this meeting, but we didn't. So,
let's put that one. Hopefully I will
have a presentation for you for the next
meeting from Megan.
>> Okay. Um we're going to go on to item
nine, new business. A quote for the
installation of the sub panel for the
community center. The quote is on page
39 of the packet. It's from Lenco for
$3,18.17.
Is that accurate?
>> Yeah. So there's two quotes there um for
two things that can be done
independently.
Um, basically we took out the quote from
the original building. The original
building was supposed to have a second
sub panel located directly under the
kitchen right from the beginning. Um,
but that was one of the things we cut
out to get under our milliondoll cap.
Um, the problem is the main panel is
completely full. We couldn't even pull
off a breaker in the existing panel uh
without going to thin line breakers to
supply the dishwasher. So Rick has
suggested doing two things up front. The
first is put in a sub panel now um and
take some of the circuits out of the
existing panel and transfer it into the
sub panel. And the second thing is uh we
had always anticipated
that building being on the same
generator backup when we replace the
generator. Um the the problem is is that
we have a building that is a public
building that is not on any sort of
backup. Unlike the town hall, the town
hall will still function with the power
loss. the community center would be
completely dead and would be unheated um
with no power to the building. So what
we had talked about and it turns out
it's
smarter
to go ahead and
put the automatic transfer switch in now
at the same time you rewire the sub
panel because essentially you don't have
to do any rework in the main panel when
you do it. So, I'm proposing we do both
of these items at once um at the same
time and that way we have some way to
tap a line for the uh uh for the
dishwasher because right now we don't
have any way to supply electrical power
to the dishwasher. Now, I think longer
term, what probably would be smart is to
put a third small electrical panel in
the utility room, which shares an
adjacent wire with the kitchen. So, that
way we can wire both the dishwasher and
the the uh hood because we don't have a
circuit for that either. Um, as well as
provide for future expansion. So, I
would like to do these two now. Um, and
then once that is done, I'm trying to
get a quote out of Rick for for wiring
the dishwasher in the kitchen, but he
just didn't have that ready yet.
>> Where are you getting the funding?
>> Uh, this will be taken out of the
multi-use building fund.
>> Okay.
>> The transfer switch is going where,
Eric?
>> Uh, the transfer switch will be going
right next to the main service panel.
And the reason is we can get a generator
in in an emergency.
Um but without an automatic transfer
switch, it's much more difficult to wire
legally to the main panel. Um
you know, it's much simpler if the ATS
is already there. Um, and since we're we
know we're going to end up doing the
generator at some point when we get
funding,
um, you know, we might as well do that
portion now. The transfer is going to
transfer to the main panel.
>> So
we it is it is designed to be a whole
building backup. Um, so it will cover it
will so the power will then come in from
the utility panel into the automatic
transfer switch and from the automatic
transfer switch into the main panel
which then feeds the sub panels
>> and into the sub panel.
>> Correct.
>> All right. So these two projects you
have are are basically
$8,100 somewhere in the ballpark.
>> Correct. And do you have a like a number
that you think the transfer switch is
going to cost?
>> Uh that is the second estimate that is
right there includes the transfer
switch.
>> Transfer switch. And what was the piece
that he hasn't included yet?
>> Essentially a third sub panel. So the
question is once you've got actual space
that you can put a big enough breaker
because the dishwasher is a
220 volt like 60 amp load because these
are dishwa these commercial dishwashers
have a wickedly high uh heating element
high powered heating element because
they have to be able to sterilize in
less than like a two and a half minute
cycle. So to do that, he can't tap the
main service panel with that because
there's no room in the main service
panel to do it. So anyway you cut it,
there has to be at least one sub panel
in. And then once this sub panel is in,
then the decision can be made to uh
either just wire that one thing or
smarter would be wired to a small panel
near the kitchen and then run everything
from that.
If that makes sense.
>> Well, it makes sense, but what you don't
know the total for that smaller panel,
the third panel. You don't know the
cost.
>> I don't. Correct.
>> So, you're going to be coming back to us
next month with another small project.
>> Presumably, and possibly one for the the
venting for the kitchen because if we're
ever going to use a stove, we need to
get the hood installed. And I don't have
bids or numbers for that yet either.
>> Okay.
>> Panel going to do the dishwasher or is
is that a separate?
>> So you could do the dishwasher directly
off this sub panel,
but the problem is if you're going to
bury it in the walls and bury it in the
ceiling, you got to cut sheetrock each
time you add a new line. So, I would
rather cut sheetrock in a run across to
where the utility closet is, Willy's
space, and put a panel in there because
I don't really care what that looks like
aesthetically.
And then we have much shorter runs to
get to the kitchen in the future if we
have to add circuits to the kitchen.
They're going to
>> have one line come in and do the sub
panel and the third panel. All
right.
>> Uh, say that again.
>> One wire coming in to feed the sub
panel.
>> Correct.
>> And then that's going to feed the sub
panel is going to feed the third or is
it just going to branch and go to the
third panel?
>> Is it?
>> No. I I would probably you would run
straight from the main service panel to
a second sub panel. You wouldn't go main
to a sub panel and the sub panel off the
sub panel. Um it would be more logical
just to have two uh you know two
breakers, one for the first sub panel,
one for the second sub panel.
>> Okay.
>> And we don't actually have to do the
automatic transfer switch at the same
time, but it's cheaper to do them both
at once than to do one and come back and
do the other later.
Would
we be able to do all three at the same
time?
It might be more cost effective and
we're taking it out of the multi-use
building fund anyway, right?
>> I think it's possible. And if I had had
the third quote from Rick already, I
would have included it in the packet,
but I did not.
>> Okay, so let's approve these two. Carol,
I mean, I'm gonna I I I really do think
we should move this this along out of a
multi-use building fund to sit there and
execute this because Rick has been very
good to the community.
>> He has. So, can we guesstimate maybe
double what the estimate that we have on
these two?
>> Well,
>> Eric, would that be safe? I I don't
really know a lot about electrical
quotes, but if we think
>> we can get you think we can get Rick to
do it all for 10 grand,
>> but we might be running a follow of
certain other things. So, how about we
sit there and just approve this and then
the third um um
>> you just sent us an email.
>> Third smaller sub panel should be Carol
if I'm reading this right. The
I would think I would think it's closer
to the top quote, the $3,000 quote.
That's just me because it's a small sub
panel, right, Eric? Isn't that what you
just said? I mean, if there's going to
be additional cost,
>> but then you said the hood and other
things.
>> Well, so
I I frankly don't have the time right
now to go out and figure out what we
need to do for the hood. Uh, it's been
something that's been on my project list
for quite a while because I feel like
the kitchen's incomplete. Um, in my
case, it's just a bandwidth issue, but I
know we've got to do these two things
anyway, and I have quotes from them from
Rick. So, I would like to and there's
other stuff I would like him to do
there, but I know these things are a
prerequisite to whatever else I'm going
to do anyway. So, I figure I would
present these to you now and as soon as
I have more information about what I
could do, I will present it to the
board. Okay. So, I'm going to make a
motion that we authorize Eric to spend
$8,100 out of the multi-use building
fund to add a uh a second um
a second
panel in the community senior community
center. and uh install
uh I'll rephrase that. Going to make a
motion to authorize the town
administrator to spend $8,100
to uh do electrical up updates required
for the community/ senior center
and to take that out of the multi-use
building fund.
>> I'll second.
>> Okay, Carol seconded. Any further
discussion on this? Okay. Uh Ann,
>> hi.
>> Earl Lee,
>> Scott Person,
>> hi.
>> Jeff Magcguire, I for nothing. And then
Eric, please come back to us next month
with the other items so that we know
what we're doing. And um one thing that
we had been asked um and I thought I saw
in some of our documentation is the uh
the button for the door installed
>> uh the
Yeah, that's been in for quite a while.
>> And and everybody is happy with that?
>> Yes. And by the way, Rick did that one.
Uh
Rick paid for that one. He did not
charge the town for that.
>> Okay. Um,
uh, C and D are, um, moving to the end.
Uh, 9E, the Kerma refund check. Uh, it's
on page, um, 42 with a packet, $5,92.
Does anyone
>> Yeah.
>> So, for those of you who don't know,
Karma,
the towns essentially are self-insured.
In years where the overall loss rate is
fairly low, uh they return to the
members uh an equity distribution based
on your costs um and you know how you've
done. So we got $5,92
back.
>> How would you like to spend it?
>> Third panel. Carol, Carol, do do we need
to talk about something?
>> No, we're good. Okay.
>> You know, you could that would be a
totally legitimate way to do that is to
ask that this be applied to the
electrical upgrades for the senior
center. That would be a
>> I was calling you to tell you I have a
family emergency and I'm really sorry,
but I have to go right now. I'm really
sorry.
>> No problem.
>> Sorry. Right. Carol, turn your computer
off.
>> Okay.
>> Um,
>> listen, go take care of it. Uh,
everybody,
>> um, I would sit there and tell you, um,
so we have three members. Why don't we
just put it in the multi-use building
fund?
>> Um, also I see the check was made out to
the town and the board of education.
Have you considered talking to Valerie?
No, because Valerie and the board of
education does not pay the kerma bill.
If they paid half the bill, I would be
happy to give them half the money.
>> Do you want us to talk to a man?
>> I just was wondering because it was made
out to both. I had I just wanted to ask
that question.
>> Okay.
>> Yeah. No, that's legitimate and you
know, long that's a big long-term
question. Um I've always in my head said
it's all tax dollars. So, I didn't have
a problem when I got here. The town paid
the insurance for the town and the
school. I mean, we don't pay RAM. Ram
pays their separately. Um, but we've
always included that in a town budget,
even though almost half of that expense
really does occur on the board of ed
side. Um, I suppose that would be a
board of selectman, board of finance
decision whether you want to continue
that. Um, in my head it's it's all town
money, so it doesn't really matter, but
it does make the town's budget bigger
and the board of ed's budget smaller by
doing that. So,
>> okay.
>> And do you think we should charge the
board of ed?
>> Not necessarily.
>> Okay.
All righty. Um,
>> like you said,
It would change the budgets overall both
ways.
>> Well, as Eric said, it's all town
taxpayer money regardless of if we spend
it on the board of education and the and
the school or if we spend it on on the
town. The only issue is that we as a
board are here to understand all of the
issues that impact all of the
organizations within the town. And
that's our job is to evaluate and
prioritize the the way that the budget
gets presented to the community. And
that's where I always have the biggest
problem. My biggest problem with you is
prioritizing what is important. You
know, it's not just a one-way street.
And that's all I ever perceive in my my
stomach. It's a one-way street. We as a
community, and I am, and I've said this
before, I will say this again. I I am
all for educating our children to the
absolute best that we can within our
budgetary means.
>> That's it. And that's what our job is as
a board of selectman is to prioritize
for the the benefit and for to watch out
for all of the residents of this town.
That's our job and and that's not always
what I think happens with this board and
all of our members. So, okay. Um,
I'll make a motion that we move the
kernel money to the multi-use business,
uh, the multi-use building fund.
>> Second that, Jim.
>> Scott second. Good idea.
>> Any further discussion?
>> All right. Uh, Ann
>> I.
>> Scott Person.
>> Hi,
>> Jeff Maguire. I
All right. Um, we have uh approval of
minutes. We had a meeting uh Monday,
August 11th. That was our
regular meeting.
>> I'll make a motion that we approve the
uh regular minute meetings for August
11th, 2025.
>> I'll second that.
>> All right. All those in favor? Anne Cr.
>> Scott Person.
Jeff Magcguire. I three in a row. Uh we
have a uh special meeting
and those minutes are on page uh 49.
A special meeting for uh Tuesday,
September 2nd.
Um
those meetings are page 49 and page 50.
Anybody have any questions? I'll make a
motion that we approve the special uh
meeting minutes for September 2nd, 2025.
>> Second that.
>> And Crerme seconded that. Um all those
in favor and Creme
>> I.
>> Person
I. Jeff Magcguire I. Three nothing.
Okay. Uh the treasurer's report that
starts on page 52. Anybody have any
questions? Eric, can you um I do have
some issues. Can you sit ask the
treasurer to sit there and include last
year's
um at the next meeting? So, we sit there
and see where we were at for the fiscal
year ended June 30th. I'd like to see
that until it's finally closed. Um and
then if at all possible um
a balance sheet again would really be
helpful because that would tell us a
consolidated balance sheet. I don't
think we need the entire uh all broken
out but it will tell us our cash balance
and our cash position and it will tell
us our fund balances. Uh it would be
very helpful.
>> Okay. All right.
Uh, anybody have any questions related
to the the information presented by the
the finance department and the
treasurer?
Okay, Eric, are there any specific uh
areas where we're going to have a
problem?
Uh, I think potentially salary for the
community center because we've
essentially back paid Tess and paid
Haley at the same time. Um, so some
consideration's going to have to be made
for that because we will be over that
salary line.
>> Okay. Can you get us an update on that
for the next meeting? And so we can sit
there and present that also to the board
of finance and get them uh understanding
of where we're at and um and what
assumptions am I making for that? Am I
making the assumption that Haley is
staying on permanently or am I making
the assumption that Haley is staying on
through the end of her contract?
>> Is that those actually are two
different? Your first assumption has to
be that Haley stays on till the end of
the contract. And then your second
assumption is the information that we
received um from Haley and Tess
outlining how they split their
positions. And we need to review that
and understand how that would impact the
overall budget. And then we also need to
be prepared to go to the board of
finance and ask for more money uh if
that's the case. you know, okay, if we
choose as a board to go in the direction
that they uh have outlined, which I I
think it's great the two of them are
working together as well as they are.
Um,
>> you know, it's not the easiest of
situations. We app we thank Haley for
for for, you know, working with Tess and
Tess for working with Haley. Thank you
very much. We appreciate it greatly. And
um you know obviously you have people
like Ela Bukart who's at the facility
and I I know that Ann is at the facility
a lot so I'm assuming that we'll hear uh
you know how it is all going and u we
need to make some
>> also at the facility.
>> Yeah.
>> Scott I I need to retire don't I?
>> Okay. Um
we need to make decisions on that. Um,
we need to make them before
>> good decisions, good responsible
decisions.
>> Yes, we need to make those decisions
based on where we're at with everything
and how the everybody can um and really
it's how we benefit the community the
most. Even us a little bit more money.
We need to do what's right for the town
and you know
>> get the best value out of that building
that we possibly can. So,
>> you look at the town calendar now and
it's full of the community center
colors.
>> I do like the colors.
>> Full.
>> Yeah.
>> Okay. Um, we will sit there and get to
that. So, Eric, that's for next month.
We need to look at that in more detail
and understand what what we can present
and move forward uh there.
>> Okay. And then the only other thing just
to be aware of right now is that I got
notified by Wall-E we're required to
sign. We have a maintenance contract for
the new tabulators. Um and it's
definitely more than the what the uh
registars have been budgeting. So there
will be an overage um of about $2,700
um on the part of the registars for
maintenance
>> and
and that's the first time we've paid for
maintenance on these new tabulators. So
>> new tabulators. Yes. So, it's not as if
we we we we
made um there was a a difference in what
the actual versus what we estimated the
cost to be, but we never had any
experience on these tabulators and what
they would charge.
>> No.
>> So, this is this is a
this is something that is not it's not
on the registars. It's more um we were
required to get new tabulators. They we
got the new tabulators. Now, we have
additional expenses related to those
tabulators and we have to incur it. So,
we'll figure that out. Um,
>> yep. I'm just notifying you since it
falls under the $5,000 threshold where I
need permission from the board of
finance, but I do need to report it to
the board of selectment. So, I have done
so.
>> Correct. But in reality, you should also
report that to board of finance so they
understand what to look in the next
cycle so that we do it correctly.
>> Sure. All right. Um,
we'll move on to the tax collector's
report.
So,
um, yes, Kate gave us a notice. She's
been away on vacation. She's going to
update these these reports are not
updated. There's no real information in
this report or finalized information
because she was on vacation.
>> Okay.
>> Correct.
>> We'll sit there and deal with that. Um,
>> uh, that will be for next month. Uh
>> there is um
um
there is a list of uncollected taxes. So
from pages 63 down to uh pretty far
down. Um
so Kate pretty much does everything
that's above, you know, we we top out at
$4,400 of back paid taxes and that goes
down to page 87.
Um page 88 is uh total tax refunds that
need to be paid uh back. There's five
different um taxes due or refunds due uh
for a total of $984.33.
So, I'll make a motion that we approve
uh the tax refunds totaling $984.33
for the period uh through uh September
11th, 2025.
>> Scott Person seconded. Uh further
discussion. All those in favor or how we
vote for May?
>> I Scott Person.
>> Jeff Maguire. I so three nothing.
Okay. Departmental reports. Does anybody
have any questions in the departmental
reports which start on page 90?
>> Okay. Um
>> you read the blight report
even though we didn't get to have it on
our meeting anymore, but I still read
it.
>> It's important to me. He he's he's been
updating consistently updating.
>> Wayne's doing a really good job of that.
Yep.
>> There are some questions that I would I
wanted to ask on that one is like how um
there was one uh issue that was on this
report. Um it was about uh
a split parcel
that was being sold and I wanted to
understand Eric and I don't need it in
the meeting but I wanted I would like to
understand how that is identified and
you know moved forward and the other one
that I wanted to understand and I will
ask you about this uh outside of the
meeting was there was a an Andover
sportsman club complaint
and there was no action on it and
nothing done because of a Connecticut
general statute. And I'd like to
understand what that Connecticut general
statute was and why the noise complaint
wasn't uh
you know wasn't dealt with. I'd like to
understand
>> first of all the town does not have a
noise ordinance or nothing in the zoning
regulations regarding noise. So there's
nothing the town can only
>> refer to state statutes and the state
statutes have a car route basically
saying that shooting clubs uh it's very
h hard to go after a shooting club for a
noise complaint.
>> Okay. Unless you have a noise ordinance.
>> Well, but even if you have a noise
ordinance, I think it's pretty hard to
go after an existing club. The shooting
club is does a really good job of
keeping the noise under control.
>> Okay.
>> They don't do it all the time and they
do it Tuesday nights. That's it. And
then on the weekends they don't they're
not up there shooting all the time.
>> Okay.
>> So I think you're talking in terms of
the lot splitting. That was one that
occurred on Wales Road and that has been
resolved. The owner agreed to take that
off the stop claiming that he could sell
that until such time as he actually um
>> there was one lot, Jeff.
>> I understand it was one lot. What I was
asking was how within our process did we
identify that?
>> That's it.
>> Yeah. I think somebody saw the real
estate
>> listing for it and questioned it.
>> To be honest, more often than not, it's
the assessor's office that that keeps
their eye on stuff and points these
things out to me and I pass it on to the
appropriate partner.
>> Okay. All right. Um, any other questions
on any other reports? Obviously, the uh
the state police the the trooper the
troop K report was questioned by one of
the residents. So hopefully next month
we'll see a little bit more activity
there. Um
building department report $11,700
in total permits. Not enough but better
than other months.
>> Still not enough. any
>> we still haven't gotten detailed rep uh
a report about the the permits the exact
permits and what they were for for just
that just we have a number that's it we
used to get that Eric don't you remember
back in the day
>> um well they they actually they actually
have 12 B building permits six
electrical permits one gas permit
mechanical
>> Yeah but it used to say what the permit
was and what address it was
>> yeah Uh, Eric, that's actually a
question. Do we have that ability to do
that off of the new software?
>> You have the ability to log onto the
system and get every bit of information
about every building permit that's ever
been filed electronically in the last
since 2021 when this system is you can
search it however you desire.
>> So, you're telling that information is
all available is what you're trying to
tell us. And you're trying to tell us do
some work is what you're trying to tell
us.
>> Well, I mean, if if if you have specific
questions, and I do from time to time. I
have questions about some particular
thing that gets pulled, I look it up.
>> Yeah.
>> So, yeah, that information is available
to you.
>> I will look it up then, Scott. I you
>> is there other ways we can summarize
that information?
>> I would consider it. I I you know it's
just a question of how much information
you want. We're not going to put every
single building permit pulled in a month
in the packet. It's just too big.
>> So So I could sit there and look at the
building permits and look at the square
footage and understand that's the
estimated cost because that's 12
building permits with an estimated cost
of $363,000.
>> You should be able to get that
information.
>> Did I have any new house starts?
I don't believe so.
>> Okay.
Okay.
>> There used to be permits.
The location of it, what the permit was
for.
I I don't see that that's a big problem
to get that information or
tell you what I'll do with you. I'll
look I'll look on the online to the
portal and sit there and see what
information
>> Yeah. Why can't it just be uh given to
us?
>> Uh we'll talk to Lynn, too. We'll we'll
see. um talk to Lynn about it.
>> Okay.
>> Go online and look and see what
information is available and then
again we're all we're all volunteers. We
love you but you know it and I know what
you're saying and I get it but you know
we're all volunteers right
>> volunteers.
>> Okay.
>> All right. Um any correspondence? Any
other issues? Anybody want to ask any
other questions on departmental reports?
And actually, I'm going to move to uh
there's no correspondence. I'm going to
move to item 15, public speak before we
uh move on to uh executive session so we
don't keep anybody here any longer than
they need to be. Elaine Bukart.
>> Okay, test GR.
>> I'm all set. Thank you, sir. All right,
Diane Grineer.
Oh, there she is.
>> There I am. I'm sorry I hadn't turned
that on earlier. Um, basically, no, I
I'm all set. Good job. Um, but just for
your info, I also read the blight. Um, I
read a lot of those reports. Um, but the
blight one too, I find it very
informative and because I'm nosy. Um but
that I I'm impressed that um there is a
lot of work being done on the blight
issue and um Andover is getting to look
pretty good. Pretty good. There's
cleaning up a lot of those places and
that's a good thing. So uh thank you
all.
>> Okay, Luis Goodwin.
>> Uh just thank you all for all you do and
that's it. Have a good night.
Gadamski,
>> Leanne Hutchinson,
>> thank you for the discussion about the
Bunker Hill Road Bridge. I had spoken
with Eric quite recently and he gave me
a lot of helpful information at the
time. So um and as you know more
questions and there were more questions
and answers tonight. So hopefully it is
completed on or extremely close to the
deadline at the end of November. Um even
if you know in the event that the road
is even open one way it would give us a
great deal of peace of mind. So thank
you for the discussion that you had.
>> Okay. Um Zoom login which I thought was
Elaine.
Hi. No, this is Joanne Heert. Um I I
can't get my name put on there after
hosting a meeting the last time for
board of finance, but no, I'm all set.
Thank you so much.
>> Okay. Um I think uh the number 2345 is
Dennis. Um I have a phone number
8607425475.
>> That's me, Leanne.
>> Oh, Leanne. Okay. I'm sorry. Uh anybody
that I missed? So, Elaine, are you good?
Biata, you good?
>> Yeah, I'm sorry. It's it's Elaine. I um
couldn't figure out how to unmute for
some reason. I've been listening and I
do want to say I appreciate that you're
recognizing all the stuff that goes on
at the community center. Thanks.
>> Okay. Um Viata.
>> Okay.
All right. Um, we have items
uh 9 C and we were moving them to 13X.
Uh, 9C uh discussion of public works
supervisor and 9D public works
maintainer 2. Um, before we talk about
those, I'd like to move to executive
session.
um include the town administrator and
the town attorney um if he's still
available uh to have discussions related
to employee issues.
Who's going to second that?
>> Second Jeff.
>> Scott seconded it. Okay. All those in
favor I'm going to go. I got to go
count. I I know they can't hear us. They
can't see us. and creme
>> I
>> Scott P persona
say I Scott
raising your hand doesn't do anything
for me
>> I
>> thank you Jeff Magcguire
>> I can't hear you I'm telling you I all
right so let's move to executive session
Eric if uh everyone thank you for coming
>> okay uh we are going to resume uh
meeting after coming out of executive
session at 9:4 47 on Monday, September
15th. Um,
we're going to move to item 13X,
uh, uh, which is 9C on the original
agenda, public works supervisor. We
don't have anything to discuss related
to the public works supervisor. Um,
we're going to go on to 139D,
uh, the public works maintainer 2. Uh,
and I'm going to make a motion uh to
authorize the town administrator to hire
Georgio Tamus as a maintainer too,
requiring that Mr. obtain obtain a CDL
um a CDL license within 6 months and
require uh that
he reimburse the cost of the CDL
training if he leaves employment any
time within uh employment of the Andover
Department of Public Works anytime
within 24 months from the date of hire.
Second that.
>> Ann creme seconded that. Uh, further
discussion.
Uh, I will now take a call roll vote.
Anne creme
>> I.
>> Lee
>> Scott Pone
>> I.
>> Jeff Maguire I. U
4. Um.
All right. Uh, I don't think there's
anything else we need to deal. I'll make
a motion that we adjourn.
Second and
>> creme seconded. Roll call. An
>> I.
>> Lee.
>> Scott Person.
>> Hi.
>> Jeff Maguire. I uh Eric. Thank you very
much. Um we're all good. All right.
Thank you very much everyone. Bye. Yep.
to one.